Mll python practice (#285)
arcus/education_modules: python_practice/python_practice.md

**Learning Objectives**:

@learning_objectives

</div>

## Lesson Preparation

For this module, you'll need access to Python, either on your own computer or in the cloud. For details about how to download Python or use Google Colab (a cloud-based notebook environment), you can take a look at the ["Accessing Python" section of our Demystifying Python module](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/demystifying_python/demystifying_python.md#9). 

## The Data

For this practice module we will be using real, publicly-available cervical cancer data from [UC Irvine's machine learning data repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php); you can download those data here: [http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00383/risk_factors_cervical_cancer.csv](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00383/risk_factors_cervical_cancer.csv). If you have done the R Practice Module (**link required**), this dataset might be familiar! 

> ## Topics to Review

Reviewer: I was looking through the module in liascript and a suggestion I can make is putting the "topic to review" section before the "Data" section. It gives it more (flow?) when reading

Author: Good idea, done!

- Importing Python libraries 
- Reading a CSV and creating a data frame
- Editing/recoding data
- Exploratory data visualization

> Stretch topics

Reviewer: What does" stretch topics" mean?

Author: I'm using it to mean topics that we haven't explicitly taught in a module, but that learners should have all of the skills to use with a little searching on their own. I can see if I can make it clearer.

Author: Hopefully this is a bit clearer now!

</div>

## Practice Problem

According to the UCI Machine Learning database, the Cervical Cancer (Risk Factors) dataset "focuses on the prediction of indicators/diagnosis of cervical cancer. The features cover demographic information, habits, and historic medical records." 

Your Task
-----

1. Explore [the Cervical Cancer (Risk Factors) dataset](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00383/risk_factors_cervical_cancer.csv) and 
2. Use the Python tools that you've learned so far to **develop a hypothesis about some likely risk factors** for a diagnosis of cervical cancer.  

Remember that there are several ways to approach this task; there is no one right answer! So have fun, and good luck!

### Stuck? 

> If this practice problem was challenging, [here is a link to an example notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arcus/education_modules/blob/mll_python_practice/python_practice/python_practice.ipynb) where we go through one possible solution to the practice problem. If you would like to download the notebook to your own computer, you can also do that by selecting "File" and then "Download" in Google Colab. 

Reviewer: does the link need to be change to 'main'?

Author: It will, yes, that's good to call out- I had it this way to start for review purposes, but that will need to be changed before merging

<!--

author:   Meredith Lee
email:    leemc@chop.edu
version:  1.0.0
module_template_version: 3.0.0
language: en
narrator: UK English Female
title: Python Practice
comment: Use the basics of Python coding, data transformation, and data visualization to work with real data. 

> long_description: When learning Python for data science, the ultimate goal is to be able to put all of the pieces together to analyze a dataset. This module aims to present a data science task in order to help learners practice Python skills in a real-world context. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
long_description: When learning Python for data science, the ultimate goal is to be able to put all of the pieces together to analyze a dataset. This module aims to provide a data science task in order to help learners practice Python skills in a real-world context. 
```
feel free to disapprove of this change
```suggestion
long_description: When learning Python for data science, the ultimate goal is to be able to put all of the pieces together to analyze a dataset. This module aims to present a data science task in order to help learners practice Python skills in a real-world context. 
```
```suggestion
long_description: When learning Python for data science, the ultimate goal is to be able to put all of the pieces together to analyze a dataset. This module aims to present a data science task in order to help learners practice Python skills in a real-world context. 
```

**Learning Objectives**:

@learning_objectives

</div>

## Lesson Preparation

For this module, you'll need access to Python, either on your own computer or in the cloud. For details about how to download Python or use Google Colab (a cloud-based notebook environment), you can take a look at the ["Accessing Python" section of our Demystifying Python module](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/demystifying_python/demystifying_python.md#9). 

## The Data

> For this practice module we will be using real, publicly-available cervical cancer data from [UC Irvine's machine learning data repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php); you can download those data here: [http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00383/risk_factors_cervical_cancer.csv](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00383/risk_factors_cervical_cancer.csv). If you have done the R Practice Module (**link required**), this dataset might be familiar! 

Reviewer: what does the **link required** mean? Is a link going to be added?

Author: Correct, this module hasn't been published yet, but I will add a link before this goes live.

Reviewer: The first link when I clicked on it in Liascript took me to a webpage that was not secure. The second link cannot be used as my computer keep saying that it is a virus

Author: Weird! I'm not having any issues with the first link (@drelliche how about you?). I bet the second is because it wants you to download something. I can change it...

Reviewer 2: @leemc-data-ed @Damizen2 Both links work for me, even clicking them through the outlook link this generated. I think it would be good to have a troubleshooting box here that the second link will try to download a file and your permissions (or your institutions permissions) might not allow it.

Author: Okay, I've added a highlight box that will help (hopefully).

## Topics to Review

- Importing Python libraries 
- Reading a CSV and creating a data frame
- Editing/recoding data
- Exploratory data visualization

Stretch topics
=====

- Correlations and heat maps

> <div class = "important">

Reviewer 2: Maybe a "care" box fits better than "important" here?

Author: I actually couldn't decide, nothing was a perfect fit-- but I think care totally works

<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Important note</b><br>

Finding correlations and creating heat maps are not topics that we have taught you in the preceding modules, but that might come in handy in solving the practice problem-- which means you might need to do some searching to figure out how to do them! This is an important step in your development as a programmer and a data scientist, but don't worry if it seems difficult in the beginning; it'll get easier with practice. To start, try googling "Python" and "correlations" and see where it takes you. 

</div>

## Practice Problem

According to the UCI Machine Learning database, the Cervical Cancer (Risk Factors) dataset "focuses on the prediction of indicators/diagnosis of cervical cancer. The features cover demographic information, habits, and historic medical records." 

> Your task is to explore this dataset and use the Python tools that you've learned so far to develop a hypothesis about some likely risk factors for a diagnosis of cervical cancer.  

Reviewer 2: Emphasize this paragraph!!

```suggestion
Your Task
-----

1. Explore [the Cervical Cancer (Risk Factors) dataset](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00383/risk_factors_cervical_cancer.csv) and 
2. Use the Python tools that you've learned so far to **develop a hypothesis about some likely risk factors** for a diagnosis of cervical cancer.  
```

If this practice problem was challenging, [here is a link to an example notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arcus/education_modules/blob/mll_python_practice/python_practice/python_practice.ipynb) where we go through one possible solution to the practice problem. If you would like to download the notebook to your own computer, you can also do that by selecting "File" and then "Download" in Google Colab. 

We encourage you to spend some time playing around with the data before you look at the example! And remember, just because your solution doesn't look exactly like the example doesn't mean it's wrong-- there are a variety of ways you might have approached the task we gave you.  

<div class = "care">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">A little encouragement...</b><br>

Feeling overwhelmed? Learning data science in Python takes time and practice. Don't worry if you feel like you have to go back and look at the modules over and over, or google lots of things-- folks who do this for a living google things every day! You don't have to memorize everything. Just keep your favorite resources close at hand so you remember what tools you have access to. 

</div>

> 

Reviewer: Does this module have to have an "additional resources" and "Feedback" section?

Author: Oh yes absolutely, totally forgot to copy over those sections, will do!

Author: These sections are present now
